ADLER | Welcome to another volume of this great collection of the best novels and non fiction books on self-help, psychology, theosophy, philosophy and science. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | King Solomon said in Ecclesiastes that there is nothing new under the sun. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | The lessons are simple, as simple are the values in which they are based: Courage, Perseverance, Faith, Love, Truthfulness, Purpose, Decision, Good Stewardship, Kindness, Happiness… | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Thoughts are Things; things that have a tendency to transform into our reality. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | As a man thinks so is his life” says the Bible. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Fear, Hate and Worry attract more fear, more hate and more worry, in all its manifestations. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Napoleon Hill, Dale Carnegie, Charles A. Haanel, William Walker Atkinson, Orison Swett Marden, Wallace Wattles, Bruce Maclelland, Christian D Larson, Ernest Holmes, Ralph Waldo Trine, Elizabeth Towne, Henry Wood, Florence Scovell-Shinn, Charles Fillmore, and many more –all household names for the last hundred years– are featured in our collection. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Therefore, we searched for the greatest works and sages of the 20th Century, and included in the collection the work of leading psychologists as Emile Coué, Isador Coriat, Alfred Adler or Carl Jung; | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Then we remembered that, since the dawn of humanity, we have always loved story telling. With fables loaded with symbols and allegories, our ancestors passed Wisdom and Knowledge from generation to generation. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Today, although there are other means to accomplish that transfer, we still love a good story; we get enamored by the characters, suffer their pain and their tragedies, and enjoy their triumphs and success as if they were ours; as if they were true. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Carefully selected, we are now placing in your hands the best collection in personal and mind-development in existence. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | These books are for enlightenment. They will provide the seeker –the one who is ready and is paying attention-, some of the deepest answers to life. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | The distinctive feature of Adler's approach to the problem of the neurotic character traits is that it approaches from the organic rather than from the functional side and in this way, I think, affords a very valuable viewpoint because it tends to bring together the organicist and the functionalist, who have been too long separated by the misconception of irreconcilable differences between mind and body. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | It is as if the neurotic said to himself, 'I wish to be a complete man.' | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | The feeling of inferiority, which underlies the masculine protest, has its raison d'etre in an inferior organ. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | Adler believes that defects of this sort nucleate, so to say, the feeling of inferiority and force the individual to make supreme efforts to overcome his particular defect and in this way, as a result of these efforts, the inferior organ, by the development of a highly differentiated nervous superstructure, may actually become supernormal, a result which we are familiar with, for example, in the remarkable facility with which blind people gain information through their supersensitized touch organs. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | The neurotic constitution founds in an inferior organ, the inferior organ produces a feeling of inferiority, the feeling of inferiority the masculine protest becomes the fictitious goal of the neurotic, whose symptoms result from an effort to mould reality along this fake pathway. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | To those who follow Adler through the various ramifications of his hypothesis, who read sympathetically his numerous case reports which he offers to substantiate his views, there can be no doubt but that the angle from which he looks at the problem of the neuroses and the psychoses lets us see new aspects of these phenomena which are exceedingly helpful to us in our effort to grasp their meanings. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | Adler's theories are admirably calculated to help the internist to grasp the possibilities of organ inferiority as they may affect the psyche and to help the psychoanalyst to grasp the origin and meanings of the neurosis as he sees it at the psychological level and perhaps to see more clearly upon what his limitations are based. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | Inclination to put forth suggestions as to new methods of approach to the problems, represented here and there by groups of workers who have tended to depart more or less from the original formulations as laid down by Freud. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | Many examples might be given, and in fact they come within the ken of every one, which demonstrate the validity of this point of view. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | This protest arises on the basis of a feeling of inferiority and an effort upon the part of the neurotic to correct this feeling, which he does by so ordering his life, so regulating his every act that he may find that security of which the feeling of inferiority has robbed him. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | the neurotic may elevate the feeling of his own worth by degrading others | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | the feeling of inferiority, incompetency, the realization of his smallness, of his weakness, of his uncertainty, thus becomes an appropriate working basis | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | consciousness of inferiority there arises a feeling of inferiority which demands a compensation in the sense of a maximation of the ego-consciousness | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | the neurotic individual seems always to be proud, dogmatic, envious and miserly, seeks always to make an impression, wishes to be first, but always trembles for the result and gladly postpones decisions | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | Their object is to prevent a lowering of the ego-consciousness when the irritated aggressiveness impels immoderately to selfish deeds | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | In all similar attempts (and the human psyche is full of them) it is the question of an introduction of an unreal and abstract scheme into actual life | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The guiding fiction has a simple, infantile scheme, and influences the apperception and the mechanism of memory | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | the construction of an 'as if' for the purpose of assuring himself against marriage, against a swerving from the goal, against a degradation at the hands of the sexual partner | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The greatest difficulty which stands in the way of an understanding of the neurosis arises from the striking protection afforded these inferior, effeminate traits and their acknowledgment by the patients | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The final object, however, always remains the same, the domination over others which is felt and appreciated as a masculine triumph | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | the feeling of inferiority, uncertainty, lowliness, effeminacy, falls on one side of the table, the antithesis of certainty, superiority, self- esteem, manliness, on the other. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | the patient wished to change from a woman to a man. This effect yields in its most highly colored form the picture of that which I have called the 'masculine protest.' | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | The longer the uncertainty as to the sex-role exists, the more urgent becomes the effort and tentative preparation to attain the masculine role. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | The desire of the boy extends to other female persons with whom he is brought into contact. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | His wishes are, if he be neurotically disposed, boundless. Discontented because of the too great distance to his egotistic ideal, he even goes so far as to entertain sexual wishes in regard to the mother, a proof of how boundless is the 'will to power.' | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | The child pictures to himself traits belonging to the most important member of the family, usually the father. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | The pulling out of teeth, therefore, symbolizes in the dream the wish to become a man, Neurotic men like women are full of the feeling of having suffered an injury and their whole life is spent in the effort at enlarging their spheres of influence. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | One of my patients who came under my observation on account of stammering and depressive states, permitted to appear in his environment a detection only of his generosity. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | Their performances are produced directly by the surge of the masculine protest which has become an end in itself and which represents wholly and entirely the reenforced guiding fiction. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | the fear of blame, of punishment, of shame, in short of being 'down' may alter his straightforward manly traits. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | Where you are not there is happiness because the real position of aging people is seriously endangered in our state of society, inasmuch as it is the productive value, which is almost exclusively the test of the worth of the personality. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | The advent of senility has even a stronger effect upon women than upon men. Even the significance of the climacteric is usually phantastically exaggerated. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | This deplorable feature has its origin in the well known tendency of man to depreciate woman, coupled with the psychic defeat which they experience from our social life, a neurotic germ, which manifests itself, implacably and ineradicably even unto the grave. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | I am deprimed I had too little out of life I shall realize nothing more, this one regularly hears in the complaints of aging neurotics, and they accentuate this manner of viewing life to such an extent, that they suspiciously and distrustfully sink into a repulsive egoism, the like of which they had never before experienced so vividly. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | Act as though you were still obliged to attain worth, thus approximately rings a newly constructed guiding principle, and along with this the neurotic's sharpening of avarice becomes more acute, the avaricious, envious, domineering impulses come violently to the foreground, almost, however, restrained by the previously mentioned guiding principles in accordance with which these patients shrink with apprehension from every desire and beginning. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | It is readily understood that these people apperceive on a sexual basis. But one must avoid taking this sexual fiction, this, so to speak, 'modus dicendi,' or as I have called it, the sexual jargon, for an original experience. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | There is no gain so long as one does not succeed in ridding the patient of his fiction, which becomes possible when he becomes more certain of himself, and is able to recognize his presumably libidinous impulse as a falsifying fiction. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | In other words, the stronger the feeling of inferiority, the more intensified the fiction becomes and the more closely it approaches a dogma, through an increasing abstraction from reality. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | The neurosis of aged people is only a different phase, an adaptive psychic superstructure built up upon the one elementary directive principle I wish to be a man. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | It is only after the patient understands and controls his desire for the unattainable, for that which in the nature of things belongs to another, that recovery may take place. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | The stronger inner need seeks adjustment through an intensification of the assuring guiding principles. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | The insane man conducts himself as if his fiction were a reality. He acts under the most intense urgency and delivers himself unto his self-created deity, which he apperceives as real. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | His older brother had returned from a journey and was welcomed at home with much love. How different were matters upon his own return from his travels in Germany. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | The seizure had for its purpose the direction of the mother's tenderness towards the patient. This was quite successful with the father. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | The change of form of his original fiction, namely I have imperfect genitalia, I shall not be a complete man had reached the thought, I too wish to possess my mother as my father and brother possess her. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | The fairy tales of 'Snow White' and 'Cinderella' frequently furnish these children with leading thoughts. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | These tests he carried out with a genuine neurotic insatiability, and thus we see also in this case that the OEdipus-complex is of the nature of an especially arranged fiction. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | The patient seeks a way out of this dilemma and thus reaches the point of 'divide et impera.' | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | He then behaves strictly according to these guiding ideas, believes in them and accentuates his abnormal being in moments of especial uncertainty to the point of a psychosis. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | Cases exhibiting the lying-mania, fetichism, neurotic mania for gathering up things and kleptomania, also illustrate this craving to possess everything. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | Apperception always comes to light according to the rigidly formal antithesis of 'manly-womanly' and frequently leads the patient to undertake accentuations by means of which it may be proved that he is a man. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | The husband expresses protesting revengefulness where there is a lack of the feeling of superiority by playing the wild man, in side leaps, in rejection, sometimes, however, in impotence. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | Thus also in place of caution, hallucinations, and fears. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | A further perversion of our patient of which she was dimly conscious consisted in a fellatio phantasy. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | The psychic attitude of the patient described at the beginning shows the essential difference. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | With all the solidity and obstinacy which cling to neurotic symptoms and the neurotic character there is often a changeableness and instability which has attracted the attention of many writers. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | Therefore the nervously exalted tendency to gain security makes use of a specially developed function of prevision, of hallucination, in which abstractly and imaginatively a scene unrolls. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | The attention and interest of these neurotics (among whom the masculine coquettes are remarkable, because they seek to carry through their triumph valued as masculine by feminine means) is directed towards making an impression and to force others into their service. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | Her female friends deserted her in order to marry, and when finally her younger sister married, her guiding line became no longer tenable because her ambition strove also for 'mastery over men.' | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Behaviors
ADLER | In her dreams she reproached her mother, telling her, " The weakness is in your family, you are to blame if I soil the bed, the soiled cover is yours." | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | Similarly George Sand declared that there was only one sex. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | The fact that at the present time she operates against men by her enuritic device and thereby avoids marriage and "the tyranny of man," is a natural result to be inferred from other perspectives of her neurotic psyche. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | The dream is as follows: "I lie in a burning bed. All weep about me. I laugh aloud." | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | It is easy to uncover this neurotic aggressiveness by a very simple mode of approach. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | It is especially easy to arrange sexual excitations and they are always in some way subordinated to the masculine protest. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | Careful examination of this character-trait reveals that it has its foundation in that sort of feeling-participation for purposes of security, which is clearly set forth in Kant's categorical imperatives for the expression of the whole character | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | The girl answered in the negative. Being able to whistle is the ideal of all small boys and some girls make efforts to acquire this manly attitude. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | Shall I add that the most extensive experience and knowledge in regard to this " tendency to disparage " is barely sufficient to prevent being taken by surprise, and that a great deal of tact, renouncement of authority, and even friendliness | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | The same longing for security has crept into the worshipping of the Mother of God. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | These symptoms are usually felt by, those who suffer from dizziness when in high places and they act when others are in danger exactly as though they themselves stood at a window or on a rock. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | We likewise see the result in every weak child who wishes to be a hero, in the clumsy child with thyroid affection who wishes to be an athletic racer and later in life always tries to be the first. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | It was easy to see in the case of this patient that in her childhood she had sought to attain the domination of man, of her brothers and her father, as she apparently had made very short work of her mother. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | This " as if " creation, this fiction became substantially independent, so that the pain and suffering could awaken whenever the patient needed them. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | Then suddenly my father appeared. Then I was at a watch maker's and wanted to buy a substitute for the one I had lost." | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | The expressions of these tendencies are often of the most subtle nature. | The Neurotic Extension of Limits
ADLER | There is something in the misfortunes of our friends which is not quite displeasing. | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | Should failure result in following the main guiding line, neurotic circuitous ways are entered upon and the 'outbreak' of the neurosis or psychosis follows as a result of a change of form and accentuation of the guiding fiction. | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | The tendency of those suffering from dementia praecox to change the furniture stands regularly in such close connection with the depreciation of the surroundings that the suspicion is justified, that this is one of the fictitious, abstract, circuitous ways by which the psychotic enhances his ego-consciousness. | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | The train of thought of this dream permits us to divine the neurotic predispositions of the patient. | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | This emotional condition often leads to jealousy, tendency to torment and sadistic inclinations, by which it is sought to establish the proof of potency and of being loved. | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | Their inclination to sectarianism forms an inimical antisocial trait, as does their severe criticism of the valuation of others which they exhibit before they even form an opinion of their own. | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | Frequently this 'will to be up' is expressed in a strongly figurative manner, especially in dreams, but also in symptoms, and takes the symbolic form of a race, of soaring, of climbing mountains, of emerging from water, etc., while the 'down' is represented by falling, in short by a motion downwards. | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | Their inclination to sectarianism forms an inimical antisocial trait, as does their severe criticism of the valuation of others... | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | In children the tendency to be up is unmistakable and coincides with the wish to be big. | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | For the fear of a woman hinders a natural sexual relation to such an extent that the neurotic in order to avoid the defeat of which he stands in fear, arrives at the expedient of ejaculatio precox, of pollutions, and of impotence. | Neurotic Principles and Their Manifestations
ADLER | the exaggerated modesty of many neurotics, who can visit no public toilet, who suffer from inhibition of the flow of urine in the presence of others, who withdraw from female society on account of blushing or anxiety and palpitation of the heart, reveals to us the strained manly ambition, which supports itself against the original feeling of inferiority | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | It is clear to me also that trains of thought on masturbation (by-paths, being in debt) run through the dream, as well as the false connection of masturbation and the stunting of the genitals. | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | Often in neurotic persons of both sexes one finds an inability to go to the toilet in cases of great necessity before others. | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | The greater modesty of women, especially of neurotic women, in all relations of life originates from the fear which is implanted in them from earliest childhood that attention might be directed to their sex. | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | The understanding of the accompanying symptoms, fear of solitude, fear of places, fear of society, etc., unsocial conduct, fixation of faults of childhood and derogation of the opposite sex are other signs by which the masculine purpose of these traits of character is revealed. | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | In cases such as the one just given, who wish above all to discuss the fear of the feminine role, I indicate that sleep may be felt as a feminine situation. | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | His pathological uncertainty adheres to the neurotic as a pretext and confirmation of his fear of woman even after he is married, so that the expression is often heard, that the feminine sexual apparatus, the condition of virginity, legitimacy of children, fatherhood, is a mystery just as a woman herself is. | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | It is often learned from the anamneses of male neurotics that they had been under the influence of a strong woman, mother, teacher, sister, who therefore, instead of their feminine role or in addition thereto, played a masculine one, were above, and to whom the environment did not deny recognition | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | The neurotic apperception, which conjures up a connection between love, insanity and death has something of the ring of poetry. | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | Paraphrasing form of behavior designed as a protection against femininity, arising from the neurotic logic that feminine roles are equated with humiliation. | The Role of Childhood and Development in Neurosis
ADLER | Hamlet, up to our time the model of a person who doubts of his manliness, of the psychic hermaphrodite, who consciously represents to himself in reassuring forethought the limitations of his manly protest, who rebels against his feminine line, and not without evading the dialectical change to the manly line, protects himself from suicide by conjuring up the dreams, " To sleep, perchance to dream, ay there's the rub, for in that sleep of death what dreams may come, when we have shuffled off this mortal coil." | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | I have for some time defended the view that suicide is one of the strongest forms of masculine protest and represents a security from humiliation by withdrawal. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | The cases accessible to me of attempts at suicide have always revealed the neurotic structure in their psyche. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | The most powerful psychic hold originates from the thoughts of death in childhood which produce a constant predisposition to suicide by shaping the psychic physiognomy under the influence of the egotistic idea. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | In the previous history of would-be suicides the same tendencies are found of trying to attain influence by illness, by attempting or by dwelling on the thoughts of death, dreaming of the mourning of relatives, to obtain satisfaction in a situation of humiliation or when there are feelings of despised love. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | My studies and those of Bartel's on the inferiority of organ, especially the inferiority of the sexual apparatus, are in harmony with this. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | It seems that the profound consideration of the problem of suicide which with the neurotic usually lasts for years is in itself a sign and at the same time a contributory cause of the correction. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | Here is the dream of a neurotic who was under treatment on account of stuttering and psychic impotence, during a night after he had waited in vain for a letter from his bride: "I thought I was dead. My relatives stood about the coffin and conducted themselves as though they were in despair." | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | Timidity as an attitude of the fear of decisions is often accompanied in neurotics by the trait of uncommunicability. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | The striving for change and revolution is found at the root of the masculine protest, when the latter is constructed according to an antithesis. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | In the psychotherapeutic treatment this trait is manifested from beginning to end, as is the case with negativism in catatonics, may be always anticipated and extends to the most trivial things. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | The application of this " On the contrary " (Umgekehrt) in superstition, perhaps for the purpose of cheating fate by expecting the opposite of what one would like, is a frequent trait in neurotics, reveals their complete insecurity, takes us back to the neurotic cautiousness and permits the recognition of the tremendous significance and wide scope which this attains in the psyche of the neurotic. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | The uncertainty of these children in regard to their future and their success in life forces them to stronger efforts and reassurances in their fictitious life plan. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | The neuroses and psychoses are attempts at compensation, constructive creations of the psyche which result from the accentuated and too highly placed guiding ideal of the inferior child. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | One will always find that neurotics cling tenaciously to their reassuring ideals. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy
ADLER | Inferior organs and neurotic phenomena are symbols of formative forces which strive to realize a self-constructed life plan by means of intense efforts and expedients. | Conclusion and Implications for Therapy