ADLER | King Solomon said in Ecclesiastes that there is nothing new under the sun. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | For thousands of years, life has been teaching us the same lessons over and over. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | The lessons are simple, as simple are the values in which they are based: Courage, Perseverance, Faith, Love, Truthfulness, Purpose, Decision, Good Stewardship, Kindness, Happiness… | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Thoughts are Things; things that have a tendency to transform into our reality. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | “As a man thinks so is his life” says the Bible. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Fear, Hate and Worry attract more fear, more hate and more worry, in all its manifestations. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | However, positive thinking and a faithful attitude attracts positive things. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Countless sages of the ages have tried to convey these messages and lessons in different ways and formulas. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | But we just keep ignoring them, and making the same mistakes… | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | In this Timeless Wisdom Collection, we present you men and women whose lives were committed to enlighten the world with the wisdom of the ages. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | It was originally born as a tribute to the New Thought authors which started the self-development and positive thinking movement over a century ago, and were rediscovered and became extremely popular in the new millennium thanks to books like “The Secret”. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Therefore, we searched for the greatest works and sages of the 20th Century, and included in the collection the work of leading psychologists as Emile Coué, Isador Coriat, Alfred Adler or Carl Jung; | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Then we remembered that, since the dawn of humanity, we have always loved story telling. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | With fables loaded with symbols and allegories, our ancestors passed Wisdom and Knowledge from generation to generation. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | and enjoy their triumphs and success as if they were ours; as if they were true. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | In thousands of masterpieces –some of them listed at the end of this book these writers brilliantly captured the essence of life and success in its different manifestations. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | Carefully selected, we are now placing in your hands the best collection in personal and mind-development in existence. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | These books are for enlightenment. They will provide the seeker –the one who is ready and is paying attention-, some of the deepest answers to life. | Preface to the Timeless Wisdom Collection
ADLER | The standpoint assumed by me ("Studie," I.e.) emphasizes more strongly than does that of other authors, the assurance of an adjustment through compensation. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | The evils of constitutional inferiority manifest themselves in the most varied diseases and predispositions to disease. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | These brief references give us an insight into the attempts of the present day scientific trends to emphasize and maintain the relation between psychic anomalies in childhood and constitutional inferiority. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | The child usually explains his difficulty by the assumption of a neglect, a slight by the parents, especially as it occurs in later children or in the youngest, occasionally even in the first born. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | The neurotic individual is derived from this sphere of uncertainty and in his childhood is under the pressure of his constitutional inferiority. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | Hence his method of thinking by analogy is more strongly and clearly developed. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | What I have described as polar, hermaphroditic opposites, Lombroso as bipolar, Bleuler as ambivalent, leads to this same method of apperception which works according to the principal of opposites. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | Consciousness of guilt also asserts itself. Here we find one of the most difficult points in the analysis of neuroses and psychoses. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | The greatest difficulty which stands in the way of an understanding of the neurosis arises from the striking protection afforded these inferior, effeminate traits and their acknowledgment by the patients. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | From this circumstance the fiction which serves as a final purpose acquires an astonishing influence and draws all the psychic forces in its direction. | Introduction to The Neurotic Constitution
ADLER | such patients frequently form their apperceptions in accordance with a scheme in which their genital organs are regarded as if they were effeminized, restricted, castrated, and as if they were therefore constantly forced to seek a substitute. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | One form of this substitution they find in the depreciation and emasculation of all other persons. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | Active homosexuality, also, as well as perversions which degrade the partner, also Lustmord, arise from the neurotic tendency to depreciate, a tendency which can hardly be pictured too strongly. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | I have always found as an internal connecting bond in these antithetical conditions the tendency to maximate the ego-consciousness, whereby the "inferior" situation is associated with a degradation, but is circumscribed and arranged as a ground for operation. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | For the " splitting of consciousness " the severely schematic and "very abstract process of apperception is also responsible, a form of apperception which groups the internal and external experiences according to a scheme which has the form of an absolute antithesis, something like the debits and credits in book-keeping, where there are no transitions possible. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The impulse to this expedient arises from the longing for an orientation "and has its roots in the neurotic's craving for security. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The whole development of the child shows that it proceeds in the direction of an idea, which naturally takes a primitive form and quite regularly seeks concrete embodiment in the form of a person. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | This answer, in reality the manner in which life is accepted, is according to all the knowledge thereof furnished by experience, to be considered as identical with the effort to put an end to uncertainty, to the chaos which prevails in impressions and feelings, with the effort to obtain a firm hold in order to overcome the difficulties of life. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | They are manifested at an early age, are indicated even in early infancy and are constantly at the foundation of the influences of conscious and unconscious education. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | Reflection, observation, thought and forethought, attention, calculation and valuation are all efforts put forth by this craving for security. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | At this point the living energies of the child become transferred into the self-created sphere of his subjective world which henceforth as a guiding fiction transmutes, falsifies and changes the values of all feelings and emotions, pleasures and pains, even the struggle for self-preservation, for his benefit, in order to attain the goal; | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The retained bad habits of childhood, such as eneuresis, biting the nails, sucking, stuttering, winking the eyes, masturbation, etc., can always be traced to these beginnings of obstinacy. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | It is easy to correlate one of these attitudes or gestures, or a mimic trait, with the prototype. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The sexual feature of the psychology of the neuroses which Freud looks upon as a cardinal point is in this wise explained as the effect of a fiction. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The feeling of security and the desire to avoid a degradation at the hands of the sexual partner, against poverty or culpability. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The guiding fiction is therefore first of all the expedient, the device by means of which the child seeks to free himself from his feeling of inferiority. It initiates compensation and stands at the service of the craving for security. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | He may conduct himself according to the motto " half and half," he may cede certain strongholds in the contest, but he does so solely in order to fortify himself against an ultimate feeling of inferiority and in order to be the better able to utilize others in his service. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | The importance of authority and tradition, the understanding of destiny and submission, or the expectation of being overwhelmed by greater power often mark the lines of the child's first efforts. | The Origin and Development of the Feeling of Inferiority
ADLER | Attention has been called to its importance by Dessoir and myself. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | The child comes under the influence of the guiding line which impels him to act as though he must know everything. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | Our concept supposes only the antithesis in the valuation of male and female as it actually exists. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | The masculine protest has thus become clear to us as an expedient of the psyche. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | Freud's interpretation of dreams was perhaps the greatest step in advance which has been made in our understanding of the psychology of the neuroses. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | The abstraction in dream-thought is necessitated by the craving for security, which seeks to solve a problem by simplifying it. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | Repeated dreams of the same content and dreams of childhood reveal the fictitious guiding line most distinctly. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | The ideas of many neurotics in childhood seem to have assumed this and similar forms concerning the origination of the two sexes. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | Our theoretical presentation of the neurotic psyche would be incomplete, if it did not also enter upon the subject of the nature and significance of dreams. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | In the same way the fear of blame, of punishment, of shame, in short of being "down" may alter his straightforward manly traits. | Psychic Compensation and Its Synthesis
ADLER | The sunshiny preparedness as it is refreshingly expressed in Goethe's " Father Time " is a quite unattainable illusion for most people, | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | Renunciation would come easier, if along with the sinking of bodily and mental power there would also take place a narrowing of the emotional life. This seldom happens, | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | Act as though you were still obliged to attain worth," thus approximately rings a newly constructed guiding principle, | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | There is no gain so long as one does not succeed in ridding the patient of his fiction, which becomes possible when he becomes more certain of himself, | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | I have never seen a case where the neurosis became first manifested at the climacterium. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | For these three steps of protection one must consult the schema contained in the theoretical part. CAUTION: for instance, as if I may lose my money, I may be beneath. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | If we were to reduce the manifest guiding principles of this patient, and free them of the various changes of form and intensity which they have undergone, so that we may take them in the original, not in the form developed later on, it would read, " I am a woman and want to be a man." | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | Thus it happens that the masculine protest makes use of a somatic language "for the purpose of gaining expression. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | Their constant fear not to become equal of an older or younger brother may render them unfit for work. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | And their lust for possession ever remains attached to those goals which they have not attained. It is readily understood that they are incapacitated for love and friendship. | The Accentuated Fiction as the Guiding Idea in the Neurosis
ADLER | I feel myself a woman and wish to be a man. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | My disease has its origin in my feeling of inferiority. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | I am impotent and inefficient as a child and long for love, ape-love, as I see it in the dream. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | I too wish to possess my mother as my father and brother possess her. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | I received the gift of pain and became a skald. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | Thus laughing in sleep, or pleasant sensations in the anticipatory quest of organic satisfaction, or of security. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | I sit opposite you and ask if you like all the patients as well as you like me? You answered, ' Yes, all, and my four children, too.' | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | As the mother isolated herself more and more from him during his childhood, he developed the idea, as is the case not infrequently with such children, that he did not belong to his family. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | Therefore I must be careful. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | Because art is still, nearly exclusively, masculine territory and the apperception offers a material less suited to it, and therefore these fictions of neurotic girls are brought into harmony with reality with greater difficulty. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | Her situation at that time permits us to understand the significance of this attempt at security through the construction of erotic preparations. | Practical Part: Neurotic Traits and Their Manifestations
ADLER | "This feeling against female functions (and the patient indeed strove also consciously against marriage) is of older date, originated in early childhood, and was at that time embodied in the wish to be ahead, healthy, strong like her father." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | "One of the day dreams of her childhood consisted in the phantasy that the whole human race was going to destruction and that she alone would remain, an analogy with the myth of the flood in which the ego-centric, inimical nature of the patient is clearly manifested." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | "The knowledge of this fact is of great importance to the psychotherapeutist for the understanding of the connection between masturbation and neurosis and from which may be comprehended the significance as a security of the feeling of self-accusation constructed from the fact of onanism." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | "The solution of this enigma which has puzzled humanity for a long time, is furnished by an understanding of the craving for security which breaks through the direct aggressive guiding line, and which puts an end to greed and immoderation as soon as the egoistic ideal is threatened by them." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | "One never hears agreeable truths from neurotic patients without a reaction immediately becoming visible, usually in the form of an aggravation of the suffering." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | "In like manner I found an obstinate wish to pay in advance, to owe nothing, in patients to whom every expenditure seemed a reduction of their ego-consciousness." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | "The neurotic individual is the typical kill-joy and peace destroyer. He is misled by his megalomaniac ideal in conditions of greatest uncertainty and is always busy trying to hypostasize and deify his own guiding line, and to cross those of others." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | "At times I have discovered as a fulfillment of this wish to dominate in solitude, the habit of remaining a long time on the stool." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | "and especially principiis obsta secures himself from a moral fall which he exaggerates in anticipation by feeling the moral defeat beforehand." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | "They preferred undergoing an evil and making an end of it to enduring one without end, but had at the same time a feeling of superiority in doing this, over the one who received the money." | The Role of Childhood Experiences
ADLER | The dream began with a symbolic contrast represented in space of an inferior femininity with a superior masculinity | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | the correctness of which assumption the result of the case substantiated | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | The discovery of traits of a cruel nature in very earliest childhood is unusually frequent in the course of an analysis of neuroses and psychoses. | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | These manifestations become psychic, or in our sense neurotic only when they begin to serve a definite end | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | The lust for power of such children is regularly manifested in the family life and play, but most of all in their bearing, attitude and glance. | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | for the purpose of exalting the egoconsciousness | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | The spirit of investigation is also often associated with this, and the torturing of animals and children | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | Compulsory laughter often possessed this patient when he was in the presence of a superior person | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | But this guiding line of masculine cruelty is threatened with great danger and accident in a society where there exist ethical imperatives | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | The neurotic succeeds in gaining superiority over the weak, or he operates on this new line so skillfully as to manage to set up an aggression | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | Through the imagining of an accentuated conscience and exaggerated feeling of guilt, the masculine protest is diverted from the straight path of aggression | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | The liberation of the sadism from the neurotic predisposition, and in the sense of Freud, from the unconscious and from repression, is to be likened to a carrying back of the neurosis to an earlier stadium | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | Insight and contemplation on the part of the patient | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | But the neurotic brings about a reconstruction of his traits of character even for the sole purpose of being enabled to initiate the struggle to better advantage. | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | The abstraction of the concept, 'above-beneath,' obviously plays an extremely important role in the civilization of mankind | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | The first purpose of these exaggerated tendencies to cruelty, is to prevent the emergence and the becoming effective of the ever present possibility of weakness and pity | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | Thus it happens that this guiding fiction contains a manly aspect, and that in all the experiences and strivings of neurotic individuals the masculine protest is revealed as the ordering principle and motive force. | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | The antithesis of 'up-down' is not less distinct than in ancient religions. | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | The impulse to masturbation in male neurotics corresponds in female neurotics to the tendency to avoid a decision and thereby to remain 'up.' | The Masculine Protest and Its Psychological Impact
ADLER | Suddenly I saw myself with my three-wheeled vehicle in the room of an inn which was well known to me and was situated on a mountain near my native place. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The thought of a bet came up in the course of a conversation with my brother. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | In early years before I knew what lay buried in the depths of his nature he seemed to be a model to me and I strove to become like him in character, mode of thought, and bearing. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The inn in which I finally found myself with my brother stood on the top of a mountain, this signified my burning desire for success in life, as I had expected it of my brother. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The exaggerated modesty of many neurotics, who can visit no public toilet, who suffer from inhibition of the flow of urine in the presence of others, who withdraw from female society on account of blushing or anxiety and palpitation of the heart, reveals to us the strained manly ambition, which supports itself against the original feeling of inferiority. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The neurotic had already in childhood laid the foundation of this foresight and in it is reflected the feeling of shame as the guiding line of reassuring modesty and the prudery of civilization. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The basis of operation for both sexes is manifested then in such a way that each demands from the other recognition or an extreme submission. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | In reality this latter line proves to be a reenforcement and continuation of the former, as an obtrusive reminder to the environment that one is a man. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | One often finds immodest conduct in neurotic girls as an anticipation of their fictitious expectation; they conduct themselves as if they were really a boy or a man, expose themselves naked or live out in neurotic symptoms, dreams and phantasies, their masculine reincarnation. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The reality is always in their favor. In girls often the holy conviction of their infidelity occupies the foreground entirely. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | In this striving of the neurotic for the attainment of the masculine guiding goal, one never misses the fact, as has already been emphasized, that the fear of a decision resolves itself into a fear of the opposite sex, that touchstone of the individual's own power, the fulfiller of the guiding idea. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | Unconsciously, the fear of the sexual partner hovers in the soul of the growing neurotic as though he anticipated in the approach of that event the end of his masculine fiction and with it the annihilation of his ego- consciousness, of his guiding star, of his security in the chaos of life. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | For they must seem thus to him in order to be effective as incentives. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The power of the sex instinct becomes for him an 'overvalued idea' (Wernicke), because he feels its need and apperceives his sexual desire as the superiority of the opposite sex. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The neurotic caricatures of Don Juan and Messalina are, notwithstanding their sexuality, neurotic. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The wonderfully effective charm which many myths, many creations of art and philosophy possess for us, is in line with this; the fault of the woman, the banal 'cherchez la femme,' in all evils. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | When both, artist and neurotic, regard the attraction of woman as menacing, as dangerous, as a compulsion on account of the uncertainty of their triumph, when both regard amorous emotions as a subjection, it is only in conformity with the fundamental disposition that animates both. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | Now, after these detours, his efforts are again directed along the paths of his neurotic goal, reveal sadistic admixtures and a strong purification fanaticism in case facts or fancies of a coprophilic nature play a role. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | In addition it may be briefly mentioned that the over-valuation of the homosexual partner serves also to raise the neurotic invert in his own estimation. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | her dream therefore revolts against sleep, and her derogatory remark that she would now like to sleep day and night, is in line with this. | The Interplay of Organic and Psychological Factors
ADLER | The deed itself is usually wrecked on the knowledge of the inner contradictions of this form of the masculine protest. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | I have for some time defended the view that suicide is one of the strongest forms of masculine protest and represents a security from humiliation by withdrawal. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | The cases accessible to me of attempts at suicide have always revealed the neurotic structure in their psyche. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | The most powerful psychic hold originates from the thoughts of death in childhood which produce a constant predisposition to suicide by shaping the psychic physiognomy under the influence of the egotistic idea. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | In the previous history of would-be suicides the same tendencies are found of trying to attain influence by illness, by attempting or by dwelling on the thoughts of death, dreaming of the mourning of relatives, to obtain satisfaction in a situation of humiliation or when there are feelings of despised love. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | Thus we must concede that those writers are correct who see in suicide a process allied to the insane constructions. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | Our study has shown that man's character-traits and their principal function in the life of the individual are manifested as expedients, in the nature of guiding lines for the thinking, feeling, willing, and acting of the human psyche, and that they are brought into stronger relief so soon as the individual strives to escape from the phase of uncertainty to the fulfillment of his fictitious guiding idea. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | Goal and direction, the fictitious purpose of the traits of character may be best recognized in the original, direct, aggressive lines. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | The neuroses and psychoses are attempts at compensation, constructive creations of the psyche which result from the accentuated and too highly placed guiding ideal of the inferior child. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | The uncertainty of these children in regard to their future and their success in life forces them to stronger efforts and reassurances in their fictitious life plan. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | In the neurotic reformation of the psyche the guiding fiction has absolute dominion and makes use of experience according to its own bent, as if the psyche were a motionless, concrete mass. | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy
ADLER | It is then that the neurotic psyche teaches us more clearly than does the normal that, ' Through the great being which surrounds and penetrates us, there is a great becoming which strives toward a completed being.' | Conclusion and Implications for Psychotherapy