The failure of the Deductive-Nomological model in connection with psychological explanation

  One quite glaring failure of DN concerns its treatment of psychological explanations. If DN is right, as Hempel makes clear, not a single one of the psychological explanations ever put forth identifies the cause of any psychological event. If DN is right, I don t know that my insult is the cause of your tantrum unless I know of some perfect regularity of which that event-sequence is an instance. I know of no such regularity. Outside of physics and chemistry, any such regularities as are to be found are imperfect. And a consequence of DN, therefore, is that, outside of those two disciplines, nothing has ever been explained.
  This must be understood aright. It may well be that nobody knows the complete explanation of any given psychological event. But a consequence of DN is that, pending the discovery of some perfect regularity of which the insult-tantrum event-sequence was an instance, it simply isn t known whether or not the insult was in any way, to any degree, the cause of the tantrum.
  And this consequence of DN is simply false. The cause of many a psychological event is known, even though the corresponding regularity, if there is one, is not known; and if the corresponding regularity is known, it isn t necessarily implicated in one s knowledge of the relevant event-sequence. You may well know that people who are dumped feel sadness. But it isn t on the basis of this knowledge that you know that the reason you are sad is that you were dumped. And you know that you intend to write a five-voice fugue in order to impress your ex- girlfriend, so as to rekindle her interest in you. But even though dumped people often (though not always, or even usually) do things to impress the people who dumped them, they seldom, if ever, try to do so by writing five-voiced fugues.
  DN entails that, unless you know of some regularity of which your writing this fugue is an instance, you cannot possibly know that your doing so is a consequence of your being dumped. DN also entails that, unless people who are dumped always respond by trying to impress their exes, no person s attempting to rekindle his/her ex s affections through a heroic deed is a consequence of him/her being dumped by said ex---which is false---and a fortiori it cannot be known of some particular act of valor performed by some dumped person that his/her heroic deed is a consequence of him/her being dumped---also false.
